Durian in Malaysia
Why is durian banned in Malaysia?
The durian's ungodly smell is so powerful and lingering that it's literally banned in many hotels, aeroplanes, hospitals, malls and other public areas. The pungent odour has been described by tourists as smelling like sewage, gasoline, or even rotten vegetables wrapped in an old sock.

What month is durian season in Malaysia?
Durian season in Malaysia typically starts around June or July, and could last until September.

Why is durian famous in Malaysia?
Cultural Significance. Durian is deeply woven into the fabric of Malaysian culture. It's a symbol of abundance, fertility, and celebration. Families and friends gather to enjoy durian together, relishing the fruit's unique flavor and the social bonding experience.

What is the best durian variety in Malaysia?
Durian Musang King aka Mao Shan Wang or MSW. Arguably the most prestigious type of durian available on the Singapore as well as Malaysia market, Musang Kings are often grown in orchards in Kelantan, Pahang and Johor. Its immense popularity is probably due to its rich taste and bright yellow-brown hue.

Why do people hate durian so much?
The answer, apparently, lies in the different ways peoples' brains interpret olfactory sensors. Apparently, the complex components that make up durian's unique aroma are similar but not identical to noxious smells like sulfur and turpentine, so brains like mine lump durian into the do-not-eat category.

Why is durian not allowed in hotels?
Many places do not allow durians, because they smell really bad (I have no idea why anyone likes them). Mangosteens on the other hand are actually really good. But they can leave a nasty red stain. Understandable more upper class hotels frown upon these.

Why is durian so expensive in Malaysia?
Due to the long cultivating duration of their trees, most of the durians are expensive but not as expensive as Musang King and Black Thorn. This is because both of them are hybrid durians created by farmers through generations and generations of trial and hybrid breeding.

Why Singapore banned durian?
For example, Singapore's Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) stations have prominent signboards indicating the ban, which was followed by a fine if violated. A ban on durians in MRT trains was implemented by the Mass Rapid Transit Corporation in 1988 due to its lingering odour, which was made worse in the air-conditioned trains.


Which state in Malaysia has the best durian?
Pahang, a Malaysian state, is home to the best Musang King. It has a pleasant scent and a creamy flavor. The Musang King is equally fantastic in ice cream or desserts, and it smells as good as it tastes.

What is Malaysia's national fruit
While Malaysia's national fruits were listed as durian and papaya, other countries were represented by different tropical favourites: Myanmar's national fruit is the cucumber tree (Averrhoa Bilimbi), Thailand's is mangosteen, Vietnam's is dragon fruit, Indonesia's is durian, Singapore's is also durian.
