Durian Type
Are there different types of durian?
It has over 300 named varieties in Thailand and 100 in Malaysia as of 1987. Other species are sold in their local regions. Known in some regions as the "king of fruits", the durian is distinctive for its large size, strong odour, and thorn-covered rind.

What is the highest grade of durian?
Durian Musang King aka Mao Shan Wang or MSW. Arguably the most prestigious type of durian available on the Singapore as well as Malaysia market, Musang Kings are often grown in orchards in Kelantan, Pahang and Johor.

Is xo durian the same as D24?
Durian XO is NOT D24; XO is just a higher quality version of D24, in terms of its age, freshness, and location of origin. If you are someone who prefers your durian to be strong and bitter, XO is your go-to durian.

What is the difference between D24 and Musang?
What are the difference between a Musang King and a D24? Musang King has a bright green husk with broad spikes, a star shape at the bottom, and deep yellow flesh with a bold bittersweet taste. D24 has a lopsided shape with smaller spikes, pale yellow flesh, and a balanced bittersweet flavor that is less intense.

Is black thorn better than Musang King?
Some individuals may prefer the bold and complex flavor of Black Thorn Durian, while others may lean towards the smooth and creamy characteristics of Musang King.

Which durian is most bitter?
Golden Phoenix durian is a more bitter fruit compared to other types of durians. It is similar to Mao Shan Wang durian but smaller. The flesh has a pale yellow color and a watery texture, making it one of the most popular durian breeds for those looking for a strong aroma.

Is Mao Shan Wang the same as Musang King?
Prized for its unusual combination of bitter and sweet flavours, Musang King is the most popular variety of durian in both Malaysia and Singapore, where it is known as Mao Shan Wang and commands a price premium over other varieties.

What type of durian is 101?
101 durians, botanically classified as Durio zibethinus, are a sweet, subtly bitter variety belonging to the Malvaceae family. The creamy durian cultivar is believed to be a Malaysian variety and is one of the most common durians sold throughout the country.



How to differentiate durian type?
All durian varieties have different lengths of stem. Some have very long stems, like the variety called Gan Yao in Thailand. Others have stems so short you can barely fit your fingers onto it to pick it up. Musang King has a relatively long stem, while D24 has a short stem.

What is black gold durian?
Typically considered to be a higher grade durian and pricer than most, the Black Gold durian boasts a nuanced, bitter profile suited for seasoned durian lovers seeking a more intense flavour. Its aroma is musky and strong, while its darker-coloured flesh has a custardy and smooth texture.
