Durian Data
Durian characteristic
Durian is a tropical fruit distinguished by its large size and spiky, hard outer shell. It has a pungent smell, custard-like flesh with large seeds. There are several varieties, but the most common one is Durio zibethinus. The fruit's flesh can range in color.

How would you describe Durians?
Durian is a fruit covered with a thick shell and greenish-brown spikes, and is the shape and size of a football. Its white flesh is very popular in Asia, though it has highly-distinctive smell that is sometimes compared to cheese.

What is special about durian?
Durian is widely celebrated for its long list of health benefits, which include the ability to boost immune system, prevent cancer and inhibit free radical activity, improve digestion, strengthen bones, improve signs of anaemia, prevent premature aging, lower blood pressure, and protect against cardiovascular diseases.

What are the specialized characteristics structures of durian?
The fruit is spherical and 15 to 20 cm (6 to 8 inches) in diameter. It has a hard external husk, or shell, covered with stout spines and contains five oval compartments, each filled with a cream-coloured pulp in which are embedded one to five chestnut-sized seeds.

How do you describe the taste of durian?
Fresh, ripe durians have an incredibly delicious and sweet flavor. It's often described as custardy, and its flavor is compared to caramel, vanilla, and even cheesecake. The texture is soft and somewhat pillowy.

Why do people love durian?
The Psychology of Taste and Smell. Humans are inherently inclined to odours related to emotions and memories, which can influence our preferences. For individuals who grew up in regions where Durian is a common fruit, the aroma and taste may evoke nostalgia and positive emotions.

Does durian have any benefits?
It is rich in vitamins such as vitamin A, vitamin C, a natural antioxidant and health benefiting B-complex vitamins like folic acid, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin and vitamin B6. Durian fruit is a natural multivitamin and a multi-mineral supplement. It is also a rich source of dietary fat and dietary fiber.

What makes a good durian?
When you pick up the durian, it should feel light and not heavy and waterlogged. Next, give it a good whiff down the seams. If you are struggling to get any scent or get a slight raw fruit smell, then it's under-ripe. If the smell knocks you over, then it is probably overripe
What are the characteristics of durian generation?
The term Durian Generation describes the latest generation of young people in Singapore and other countries in Southeast Asia. A standard description of this generation is that they have a highly demanding and entitled mindset, as well as- a desire for everything lavish and pricey, similar to the durian fruit.


What is the texture of durian?
Durian fruit stands out for its spiny, thorny outer appearance, almost resembling a spiky ball. Ripe durian fruit has a soft, custard-like, creamy texture.

What makes durian unusual?
The pulp of a ripe durian emits an unusually potent and very persistent smell that is reminiscent of rotten onions. That is why the fruit has been banned on local public transportation in Singapore and at numerous hotels in Thailand.
