Question often asked 4

Which country loves durian the most?
The immensely popular Musang King variety has fuelled durian's rise to global domination. The fruit is now in great demand in China, with Chinese consumers falling in love with durian's unique flavor profile as they also take advantage of its many health benefits.

Why is durian so smelly?
So, why would durian fruit develop such a smell? It's an attractant, the study hypothesized. “Durian—by emanating an extremely pungent odor at ripening—appears to have the characteristic of a plant whose main dispersal vectors are odor-enticed primates rather than visually enticed animals,” the report stated.

Who is the world's largest producer of durian?
Thailand by far ranks as the main exporter of durian, accounting for an average of 94 percent of world shipments over 2020–2022. The remainder of traded quantities is almost exclusively supplied by Viet Nam and Malaysia, at some 3 percent share each.

What country doesn't allow durian?
Despite its polarizing smell, durian has legions of fans, but you won't find them eating it in enclosed public spaces. Durian's odor is so pervasive that it's banned on public transportation and in some hotels throughout Southeast Asia, including in Japan, Hong Kong, Thailand, and Singapore

Can I eat Panadol after eating durian?
Because durian (Durio zibethinus), which is known in Southeast Asia as "the king of fruits", is thought to have special body-warming properties, it should not be consumed with paracetamol due to a risk of toxic effects. The claim of warming properties, however, has not been scientifically proven.

Why is durian so expensive in Malaysia?
Due to the long cultivating duration of their trees, most of the durians are expensive but not as expensive as Musang King and Black Thorn. This is because both of them are hybrid durians created by farmers through generations and generations of trial and hybrid breeding.

Which country invented durian?
The durian tree is a tropical fruit tree under the order Malvales, family Bombacaceae. It is thought to have originated from either Malaya or Borneo, and has been cultivated for centuries in tropical Asia.

Is durian bad for high blood pressure?
1483 Page 2 Traditionally, durian is considered “heaty” because anecdotally it can raise body temperature and elevate blood pressure (BP). Therefore, pregnant women and individuals with high BPs are advised not to eat it. [8,9] Reports suggest that this might be due to its high sugar content.

Can China grow durian?
Commercial durian farming in China started gaining traction in 2018 and the country had its first major durian harvest just last year, which yielded only 50 tons.

What is the most expensive durian?
Musang King auctioned off for $52.5k in Malaysia

What is durian real name?
durian, (Durio zibethinus), tree of the hibiscus, or mallow, family (Malvaceae) and its large edible fruit. The durian is cultivated in Indonesia, the Philippines, Malaysia, and southern Thailand and is seldom exported.

What is the lifespan of a durian tree?
150 years. Unless durian growers decide that the form should look otherwise, the adult tree will take on a similar aspect later on in life. Thai durians are believed to live up to 150 years on average, but they also have the potential to live for centuries.

What city is known for durian?
Davao City. Located in the southern part of the Philippines, Davao City is not only known for its vibrant culture, stunning landscapes, and friendly locals but also for being the Durian Capital of the country.
